---
title: "SMASH: Semantic Mining of Activity, Social, and Health data"
collection: talks
permalink: http://aimlab.cs.uoregon.edu/smash/
venue: "NIH R01GM103309"
date: 05-01-2013
---


Two thirds of the US population are now overweight or obese. This incurs significant health risks and financial costs to society. Traditionally, support groups and other social reinforcement approaches have been popular and effective in dealing with unhealthy behaviors including overweight. Of the factors associated with sustained weight loss one of the most important is continued intervention with frequent social contacts. Research in the design and implementation of the SMASH (Semantic Mining of Activity, Social, and Health data) system will address a critical need for data mining tools to help understanding the influence of healthcare social networks, such as YesiWell, on sustained weight loss where the data are multi-dimensional, temporal, semantically heterogeneous, and very sensitive.
System design and implementation rest on specific aims including to develop a novel data mining and statistical learning approach to understand key factors that enable spread of healthy behaviors in a social network and to protect the privacy of human subjects during the data mining process for social network and health data. We consider the enforcement of differential privacy through a privacy preserving analysis layer. We develop novel solutions to preserve differential privacy for mining dynamic health data and social activities of human subjects.
